# Check Splice Junctions filtering

 **Prerequisites**:

 - Dataset1
 - BAM track (track1.bam) that contains splice junctions tracks in Dataset1.
 - Global Settings >> **Alignments** tab >> **Splice Junctions** section >> **Enable filtering** checkbox is unshecked.

**Actions**:

1. Open NGB application.
2. Go to Dateset panel. Expand Dataset1 using an arrow icon next to a group name.
3. Tick track1.bam in the Dataset1 list to toggle its visibility.
4. Select needed chromosome from the chromosome selector dropdown (zoom in track if needed).
5. Open **General** menu in BAM track's header.
6. Check **Show splice junctions** option.
7. Hover over the splice junctions arcs and look at the depth value for junctions.
8. Open Global Settings.
9. Go to **Alignments** tab.
10. Navigate to **Splice Junctions** section.
11. Check **Enable filtering** checkbox.
12. Enter average value from step 7 into the minimum coverage threshold value field. Click **Save** button.
13. Repeat steps 8-10.
14. Uncheck **Enable filtering** checkbox. Click **Save** button.

***
**Expected result:**

After step 4: Splice Junctions track isn't shown by default

After step 6: splice junctions represented by an arcs are shown for the track:
- Junctions from the positive strand extend above the center line.
- Junctions from the negative strand extend below the center line.
- Junctions with positive and negative strands have different colours according to the settings.
- The height of the arc, and its thickness, are proportional to the depth.

After step 12:
- Only splice junctions with depth less than threshold aren't shown.
- Configured threshold is displayed at BAM track header as label  `Splice junctions minimum coverage: <value>`.

After step 14:
- All splice junctions are shown
- Label `Splice junctions minimum coverage: <value>` isn't shown.